---
layout: publication
title: "Relation between charge carrier mobility and lifetime in organic photovoltaics"
doi: "10.1063/1.4829456"
authors:
  - Chellappan Vijila
  - Samarendra P. Singh
  - Evan Williams
  - Prashant Sonar
  - Almantas Pivrikas
  - <strong>Bronson Philippa</strong>
  - Ronald White
  - Elumalai Naveen Kumar
  - S. Gomathy Sandhya
  - Sergey Gorelik
  - Jonathan Hobley
  - Akihiro Furube
  - Hiroyuki Matsuzaki
  - Ryuzi Katoh
local_pdf: "/publications/pdf/2013 - Vijila et al.pdf"
journal: "Journal of Applied Physics"
use_mathjax: true
---

## Non-technical summary

In a solar cell, a key energy loss mechanism is the *recombination* of
electrons (negative charges) and holes (positive
charges). Recombination occurs when these oppositely charged species
meet and annihilate, converting their energy into heat or light. To
make efficient solar cells, this recombination must be minimised,
because every charge carrier that recombines is one that does not
contribute fully to the power that is generated.

A useful concept for understanding recombination is the charge carrier
lifetime. The lifetime gives an approximate time scale for how long a
charge carrier can expect to survive recombination. It does not mean
that a charge carrier will survive for *exactly* the lifetime, rather,
it gives a typical (or average) time scale.

The lifetime depends upon the concentration of charge carriers inside
the device. This is intuitively obvious: if the concentration is
higher, then any given carrier will many opportunities to meet an
oppositely charged partner and annihilate. Conversely, if the
concentration is low, there are few potential partners around, and
carriers will be forever alone. (But this is okay because lonely
carriers survive for longer.)

There is a theoretical prediction for the strength of recombination
due to Langevin in 1903. Langevin's prediction from over a hundred
years ago turns out to be an excellent description of many organic
semiconductors. Langevin predicted that the strength of recombination
should be proportional to the mobility of the carriers; in other
words, if the carriers move twice as fast, they should also recombine
twice as quickly.

If the strength of recombination is proportional to the mobility of
carriers, then this presents a problem for organic solar cells. One
wants to make the mobility as fast as possible to extract charges
before they recombine. We want the transit time (the time taken to
move through the film) to be less than the lifetime. Unfortunately, if
Langevin's prediction is true, then decreasing the transit time will
also decrease the lifetime! You can't change one without changing the
other. This is a serious problem because it suggests that improving
charge carrier mobility is less useful than it might otherwise appear.

This paper presents an experimental validation of this prediction. We
vary the mobility of an organic solar cell by changing the temperature
from room temperature down to 120 K. At the low temperatures, the
mobility is reduced by more than ten times. (Lower temperatures equate
to lower mobilities because organic materials use thermal energy to
assist the hopping of charges from one place to another.) We measured
the mobility and the carrier lifetime across this range of
temperatures. As the transit time decreases, so does the lifetime. This is
exactly the prediction of Langevin. Consequently, increasing the
mobility is not enough to obtain higher performance organic solar
cells. It is also necessary to find materials that disobey the
Langevin theory. There are some materials like that, but unfortunately
they're rare. It's not clear how to deliberately design new
"non-Langevin" materials. Finding such design rules is an important
open problem.
